Detailed description

Every pedestrian in both Central and Prospect Park has experienced the adventure of trying to cross the park drive by finding a small gap in the stream of fast-moving cyclists. It is often a challenge for people who are fleet of foot, and can be downright frustrating for those with more limited mobility.

To address the problem, I propose the simple solution of installing a small bank of cobblestones on either side of the bicycle lanes at any location pedestrians need to cross the drive. At-grade cobblestone bulb-outs like this would have the effect of dramatically slowing bicycles as they either move into the center lane, or reduce speed to navigate riding over the cobbles themselves. (As any student of urban history knows, bicyclists were early advocates for paving over cobblestones with asphalt to avoid exactly this kind of bone-shaking slowness that affects the narrow high-pressure high-speed road cyclists more than others.)

In addition to slowing bicyclists, pedestrians could move out to the edge of the cobblestone area and have a much narrower crossing to navigate. At the same time a cyclist who sees no pedestrians waiting will have no reason to slow down as they pass through the middle lane. In addition, municipal vehicles, park vehicles, and police can drive over the cobblestones in the vehicle lane without obstruction.

This solution nudges cyclists and pedestrians towards better interactions without having to aggressively police behavior or install additional signage or signals. Any cyclists who complain can be reminded that the Paris–Roubaix is one of the premier road bicycle races in the world and features long stretches of cobblestone roads. A few cobbles added to the park drive should only improve their bike handling and racing abilities.


Solutions:

+ Pedestrians can move to the edge of the cobbles for a far narrower gap to cross.
+ Cyclists dramatically slow to either navigate the cobbles at a walking speed or maneuver through the middle bicycle lane.
+ Doesn't cure every cyclist-pedestrian encounter, but strongly nudges cyclists and pedestrians toward personable negotiated interactions.
+ With no pedestrians waiting to cross, cyclists can maintain speed.
+ Municipal vehicles can pass over cobblestones in their lane without slowing.
+ No aggressive policing of behavior, new signage, or signals required.
+ Cyclists can practice cobblestone riding, as featured in the premiere road bicycling race Paris–Roubaix.
